# Tempo
## Games Go Longer
Matches of classic Dota tend to be a bit longer than modern Dota. The game is, in general, slower. It takes a little longer to level up and gather gold, so heroes reach their peak slightly later. There are usually fewer kills per minute and the towers often last a bit longer (except in the aforementioned scenario where one team's timing is much earlier than the other team's - they'll hopefully be taking towers at an accelerated pace that feels more like modern Dota, or even faster in extreme cases). 

## Power Spikes
Heroes in classic Dota seem to have much more pronounced power spikes and falloffs than they do in modern Dota. Here's my analysis of how talents make this happen:
>Flat number-based spells (e.g. Crystal Maiden's Crystal Nova) will always be better in the early game than the late game, because the damage stays the same (after their fourth level is skilled) but heroes gain more health from items and level up stats. Similar logic dictates that percentage-based spells (e.g. Spectre's Dispersion) will be comparatively better in the late game than the early game, because scaling is built in. This is also somewhat true in modern Dota, but it's tempered by the design of talents. At the time of writing, with all four points in the abilities, Crystal Nova deals 260 damage, and Dispersion reflects 22%. Each ability has a level 25 talent. Crystal Nova gets taken from 260 damage to a total of 500. Dispersion gets taken from 22% damage reflection to 27%. Proportionally speaking, 260 damage to 500 is a 92.3% increase, whereas 22% reflection to 27% is only a 22.7% increase. Obviously Spectre is still a way better late game hero despite this, but the uneven talents give Crystal Maiden a level of late-game presence that just doesn't exist in classic Dota. This is, admittedly, a somewhat simplistic analysis, but I believe that it demonstrates a valid point.  

There's also something to be said about net worth here. Supports in particular in modern Dota are way, way richer than they are in 6.84. This is because of the shared bounty rune system, free (or less expensive) support items, and perhaps some assorted gold reward formula changes. Most supports don't have mobility anywhere in their kit, but in modern Dota, it doesn't matter - they can always afford a blink, or a force staff, or at least a glimmer cape or ghost scepter to keep their opponents away from them. It's fairly normal in 6.84 for hard supports to get their first real item at around the 25 to 30 minute mark. In modern Dota, it's more like 15 to 20. That difference, in practice, is huge. If a hero doesn't have something built into their already bloated kit, they can probably buy it, given the breadth of items available. Any hero can do pretty much anything. This also makes each hero's strengths that much less unique - how special can something be if anybody can buy it from a shop? This simply doesn't exist in classic Dota, and the game is more strategic because of it.

The consequences of the increased power spikes and falloffs only compound throughout a team's draft. Sometimes in classic Dota you simply cannot win past a certain point in the game no matter how hard the enemy team messes up or how well you play. The game becomes practically unthrowable no matter how bad the enemy team is because their late game is just that much superior. As a corollary, you'll tend to have a similarly massive advantage in early fights in this scenario. You'll either close the game out early, or you'll lose. This is *vastly* more common in classic Dota than it is in modern Dota. The timing of your team's draft is *extremely* important in classic Dota and if you don't understand it, you're destined to lose. Always keep tempo in mind when playing the game and selecting your hero.
